The menu has been created in theory.
Let's now add the menu item the menu item should be displayed on the favorites page.
The library page and of course also the settings page.
Let's start with the favorites page with the template of the favorites page.
We want to display this button for the menu in the nav bar of this page.
So here I'm going to add a button and this button gets the button directive and I'll add.
I can actually I will only have all I can no text at all.
And the name of the icons menu.
Now let's save this and see how this looks like.
Well we have a button we can click it.
It won't open them open the menu yet.
We'll work on this a second.
But it's not super pretty.
Would be nice of a different kind of button here.
Well we can change this by wrapping the button into another component which is called Iron buttons and
buttons is used in the nav bar to group your buttons in the neph bar.
Obviously there is limited space in the nav bar so you shouldn't place 100 buttons in there but to align
them nicely you're typically placed in iron patterns and then you can add a directive to it.
For example start to tell I on to where you want to place them but be the opposite.
And if I do this wrap the button and I'm patens some place and on it you see now it looks nicer and
it's on the right.
If I change just to start it will switch to the left.
And of course if I have multiple iron buttons here let me simply duplicate this to demonstrate it where
I have one with start and one with and you see now I have both buttons nicely aligned.
So when working with buttons in your nav bar you should wrap them in iron buttons to control where they
sit and to have them look nice.
There's just something to memorize when using buttons in the nav bar.
Use iron buttons to group them to place them and position them with that to get the menu button but
still not opening our menu.
We can achieve this by adding a click listener.
You say on open menu for example and now any type of class I'm adding this on open menu and we control
the Menu Foods menu controller as you learned earlier.
So let me quickly add this here private menu controller menu controller like this.
Make sure to imported from ionic angler.
There's just the correct import.
And then in there in on open menu can say this menu controller open and this will open the menu you
configured in your root component so that quickly reloaders appier you now click on this.
It opens the menu and you can see we can go to the settings page just already work so replacing the
root page and closing the menu works correctly.
However.
It's kind of annoying that we have to implement this on our menu inject the menu controller import the
tear and repeat all of that on every page where we want to be able to open the menu.
Thankfully there is a shortcut.
I'm going to remove all of that.
Remove the import removed injection remove the method and then the template I'm going to remove the
click.
Because I don't talk to you.
Thankfully offering us a helpful directive.
It's called menue toggle and it does what the name applies.
It allows us to toggle our menu to open and close it.
So if we implement this save it and let it recompile let it reload.
You see now I can easily toggle the menu here without having to implement all the code on my own.
The menu of course still works as before.
Now with that we can implement this.
I unbuttons group here at the bottom with the menu tag class on it.
Every girl we want to implemented that would all be the library file.
And of course the settings page.
The first time we touched the settings page let me get rid of this.
Implement the button will work on the rest of this template later.
Let me save this and now you should see that we have a button here and here.
Not if we select a category because then we have the back button and I don't want to have a menu button
here.
You could add it on the right of course with the ion buttons and then and bulliest on it.
And of course we also have it here on the settings page allowing us to go back to the taps page.
Awesome.
With that we implemented the side menu.
You saw that this also splits up our navigation stack.
You learned how to add a button to toggle it.
You learn how to replace the root page.
The missing piece now is to implement the settings page to manage our settings and to display an alternative
background.